So the first thing that I like to do is
to put all the providers anything with
context in a separate
folder called context.
You don't have to do that,
it's just what I personally prefer.
If you like anything else,
feel free to do that.
Now here,
I'm going to do it listings provider.
And in here I'm just going
to import react from react.
I'm also going to import the use listing,
because this is essentially what we'll
be using afterwards use listings.
Hopefully I, yep.
Now, I'm going to tap
that listings provider.
And this one I use this use listings hook,
cuz it needs to pet those listings.
I'm just gonna say if no
listings then return no, or
loading spinner,
I don't have that component right now.
Normally I would've added a nice spinner.
And otherwise return the context
of we're going to create now.
So, here's like constant listings
context is react dot create context.
And the initial value is no,
like we don't have anything yet.
It's kind of just like an empty object.
So, here we can say okay, so, from this
context, I want to have the provider.
And the value that we wanna pass
to the consumers are the listings,
in here I'm going to use
prop set children, and
then listings context up provider, boom.
Now, like a set before I like to
create a custom hook for this.
So maybe like- function
use listings context and
then return reacts dot use context.
So this hook lets us consume the context
that we're providing to that
children off their listings provider,
so that is listings context.
Cool.
Now, the parent most component that wraps
both the input and the listings is an app.
So, we need to go back here and import
this provider from context listings,
provider listings provider not listing and
we are just going to wrap that here.
Cool.
So now we just need to
update the input component.
I don't want it to use
listing hook instead,
I wanted to use the Use listings context,
use, sorry, listing provider.
So in here, I get this,
it is a named export, and
I also have to change that in listings.
So I'm gonna say use listing context
from context listings provider or
listings context and
then we're going to use that here.
Now, I don't really have to show that
anymore because we that provider already
renders know that if there is no data and
that reps that component.
So right now we have access to
the listings through this context that we
provide in this provider.
So we're only calling useless things once
and the data that we get from that we
are passing to both, well, to any child
component that would like to consume it.
But in is case,
we're only consuming it here and input and
then again in enlisting.
So the nice way of sharing data
across multiple components and
making sure that especially
if you're fetching data or
something to minimize like
the amount of API calls.
Because that can get pretty both laggy and
expensive as if it's your
own API stuff like that.
So yeah, this is a pretty easy way
to use the provider pattern and
to share data across multiple components.
Any questions about the solution?
>> Yeah, I got one question that
you mentioned re-renders and
if I'm a consumer, and
let's say the context is pretty complex
it's got a lot of returns, right?
But I'm only consuming one of them and
context updates something else that I'm
not consuming, am I not gonna re-render or
is it an all or
nothing thing with context?
>> As far as I know so for example right
now we're actually returning listings,
but maybe this is like an object I just
have to change this real quick otherwise
it's guaranteed freak out events listings.
But maybe we also had
another value in here.
I don't know, it could be data set data is
react use state and let me know if this
doesn't answer your question, but
maybe we also have like data in here.
Now, if data updates, but the input is
only consuming listings it will not
re-render, so only the consumers that
also use that data will re-render.
I may be mistaken here, but
this is the last thing that I learned.
So, if that's not right,
do let me know that.
Yeah, it will only render if you're
actually consuming the updated value.
Any more question?
>> So this is using like the built in
React stuff like create context and
whatever.
Is there kind of a more
generic idea of a provider?
>> Provider patterns?
>> Pretty much like at least in
the context of React you would just
always-
>> Yeah,
when we're talking about React and we're
talking about the provider pattern this is
definitely pattern that
we're thinking about.
I think in like in general let's see
what like defines a provider pattern,
I don't know if there's like make data
available to multiple child components.
So, it could really be any
like wrapped component,
I guess it passes data in like an easy
way to multiple child components.
But when talking about React and
I'm not entirely sure like what defines
the provider pattern maybe in other
languages you can use like other tools.
I'm not entirely sure I don't dare
to make any statements there.
But like, no, that's not true.
Yeah, with React,
it's always with like the context API.
And if you wanna use
hooks like I did here,
use hooks but you don't have to, so cool.
>> There was a question online
that was in a complex app,
you might have lots of providers.
So you just Brett,
do you wrap your app with all providers or
just certain components in that
case where you've got a bunch?
>> Yeah, I mean, in this case,
I'm wrapping it in within this app just
because like that's the parent most
component that shares children
that both need this input.
But always try to make sure and
also like you can read this multiple times
if the data doesn't have to be shared.
For example, if I read this and
like the input listings,
now this will create two different
providers for each of them item.
So like I could, if you want to reuse
certain data in like smaller sections of
your application, you can totally do that.
And that's also obviously, way more
performant like try to make sure that
you're only wrapping the parent
most component that or
the kind of the common ancestor component.
I don't know if that makes sense.
But don't unnecessarily wrap your
application in all those providers,
even though it will only update if it
consumes it it can still cause like
unexpected re renders.
And it also makes it like a lot
more readable to understand
which component parts
are consuming certain data, yeah.
>> I'm a bit lost here.
When previous lighting if I'm right
whenever I used a provider the child
covenant was interested in has to
have a consumer portion of it.
>> Yeah, so that was, let's see.
So you can either use it, I guess
is what you're referring to, right?
Yes.
So you can either use this or
you can use the use context hook.
So this is like,
either or, but personally,
I prefer to use the use context
hook just because it's smaller.
It's personally more readable to me, but
feel free to use that this render
props pattern with a consumer.